Title: First weeks of programming
Date: 2014-06-01 18:00
Category: posts
Slug: first-programming
Author: Elana Hashman
Summary: First two weeks of programming are complete!

The responses to our initial design have trickled in over the last couple 
weeks. Catherine and Jessica from Python had [great feedback](https://openhatch.org/wiki/GSoC_2014/bug-set-creator#User_Feedback) 
for additions to the project, and further discussions with Shauna have helped 
to iteratively improve design. We've continued to refine the [project design](https://openhatch.org/wiki/GSoC_2014/bug-set-creator#User_Interface_and_Workflow) 
and features have been chosen to allow for development of a "minimum viable 
product" in the upcoming three weeks.

# Deliverables for the past two weeks #

First: administrivia. I have created
[project milestones](https://openhatch.org/wiki/GSoC_2014/bug-set-creator#Project_Milestones) 
in the OpenHatch issue tracker to plan feature releases against. I am tracking 
against weeks of coursework rather than GSoC weeks, because work on the project 
began the week of May 5th&mdash;when my coursework in CS 499R began. (As a 
result, this post corresponds to milestone `gsoc14.4`, for the fourth week of 
classes.)

The main deliverable for the last two weeks of development is the "list of 
bugsets" screen.  I've created 
[another issue](https://openhatch.org/bugs/issue994) to track it; pull request 
[#276](https://github.com/openhatch/oh-mainline/pull/276) addressed it; and the 
code was merged on June 1. You can even take a look at the work I've done so 
far by visiting [http://openhatch.org/bugsets/](http://openhatch.org/bugsets/),
though it's not very exciting with the basic models and lack of database 
content.

I also attended a WatPy Django tutorial the morning/afternoon of May 31st, 
wrote a summary of the project for the 
<a href="http://lists.openhatch.org/mailman/listinfo/announce" title="I am interested in your ideas and would like to subscribe to your newsletter">OpenHatch newsletter</a>,
and engaged in a number of meetings and pair-programming sessions with my 
mentor Asheesh.

## Some design decisions ##

We have decided to remove the requirement for bugs to live in the OpenHatch 
database, and instead are focusing only on storing bug annotations and links.
We will allow for an annotation to live in many sets by allowing the bug 
annotations to live in one table and the event lists to live in another with a 
many-to-many relationship.

This will allow for maximum flexibility: projects without trackers, bug entry 
by hand, etc. while leaving the option of integration with the OpenHatch bug 
database and/or OpenHatch bug crawler to automate filling in some fields.

# Obstacles #

The most significant obstacle in development is coordinating GSoC with my other 
schoolwork. I have encountered an unexpectedly large workload in one of my 
(math) courses, which is providing me with 15-20 hour assignments due weekly. 
Coordination between this, other courses, GSoC, and my extracurricular 
activities has thus far been tricky, but thus far Asheesh and I seem to be 
managing to schedule in regular pair-programming and project work. While things 
may be moving slower than I'd like, they are at least moving.

Learning Django has been quick and straightforward; learning the test framework 
for `oh-mainline` was a little trickier, but both proved very easy with the 
help of Asheesh! Though obstacles may arise, and though there's still a lot of 
learning to do, the project schedule was designed to allow for set-backs and 
time flexibility, so we should still be on track for the next three weeks. By 
the time my next post is finished, that MVP should be released!
